`+man+` is the command to access manual pages on Linux. These tell you
how to use specific commands, programs, and conventions on your system,
so knowing how to efficiently use the `+man+` command will save you time
during research and troubleshooting. However, if you do not know how to
leverage the `+man+` command, you may be discouraged from using this
resource altogether.

The contents are divided up into nine sections. You can find more
information on these sections in the
https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/top-five-man-options[Enable Sysadmin
article] on `+man+` pages.

Within these sections, each page has a name. The name of the page is how
you can access the information within it. But what do you do if you
don’t know the name of a page?

The first time you try to list `+man+` pages, you will need to update
your `+man+` database. Use the following command:

[source,bash]
----
mandb
----

____
_NOTE:_ If the database has not been updated, you will get an output
similar to "`.: nothing appropriate.`"
____

Once you have updated the `+man+` database, the following command will
list all `+man+` pages available on your system:

[source,bash]
----
man -k .
----

This list can be quite extensive, though, so you may want to pipe
(`+|+`) the output into `+less+` or another text viewer.

If you aren’t sure exactly what a page contains, the `+-f+` option will
print a short description for the specified page.

[source,bash]
----
man -f grep
----

One thing that is essential for every Linux user to learn is tab
completion. Tab completion allows you to press the _tab_ key to fill in
the rest of the characters of the current item that you are typing. This
will only complete if you have typed enough characters to uniquely
identify one item that is available. If what you have typed so far is
not unique, then nothing will happen on the first tab press. The second
time you press tab, a list of options that match the string you have
entered will be printed. Because of this, tab completion saves time and
cuts down on mistakes.

You could try tab completion for yourself by re-typing the previous
command, but instead of typing `+grep+` all the way out, just type
`+gre+` and then press tab. You will see that `+grep+` fills in, and you
can hit enter to execute the command.

These commands work great if you know the title of the `+man+` page that
you are looking for, but what if you want to search for specific
contents instead? `+man+` supports a `+--regex+` option that lets you
search through all man pages using regular expressions. This will then
open each page that contains a match sequentially. If you instead wish
to just output the location of the matches, you can use the `+-wK+`
options to return where keywords are located. Say you were looking for
information on the chrony daemon:

[source,bash]
----
man -wK chronyd
----

Then, if you decided you were looking for the `+man+` page on commands
(section 1), you could open it with `+man chronyc+`. Since this command
supports the regular expression option, you can add `+--regex+` to use
wildcards and other regex characters to help you narrow in your search.
