`+sudo+`, on the other hand, is a command which allows non-root users to
perform administrative tasks. Users in the _wheel_ group have access to
the `+sudo+` command.

____
_NOTE:_ When logged in as *root*, the character in the command prompt is
`+#+`. When you switch users to *rhel*, this character changes to `+$+`.
*root* will always be symbolized by `+#+` to give you the warning that
any command you enter will be run with the highest level of
administrative privileges.
____

Use the `+su+` command to switch to the *rhel* user:

[source,bash]
----
su - rhel
----

Then, try to access the following file:

[source,bash]
----
cat /etc/shadow
----

This configuration fileâ€™s permissions prevent *rhel* from reading its
contents. However, *rhel* is part of the _wheel_ group, so you can
circumvent this permissions issue temporarily by prepending `+sudo+` to
your previous command:

[source,bash]
----
sudo cat /etc/shadow
----

`+sudo+` allowed you to access the contents of the file without changing
the associated permissions.

____
_NOTE:_ `+sudo !!+` is a shortcut for rerunning the previous command
with `+sudo+`
____

Assuming the system is properly configured, most users should not need
to regularly use `+sudo+` during day-to-day usage. This command should
only be necessary when making administrative changes. If you plan to
make lots of administrative changes, it can save you some time to log in
as *root*. However, the administrative block can act as a safeguard in
the case that you erroneously execute an operation that will modify the
system. Seeing "`permission denied`" will cause you to double check the
command before re-running it using `+sudo+`.
